
Dear all, 
I invite you to my PhD seminar on February 4, 2014(Tuesday) at 3pm . Kindly make it convenient to attend the seminar and give your valuable feedback. The details of the seminar are as follows. 

Title: Addressing scalability challenges in peer-to-peer search 


Speaker: Harisankar H 


Date: February 4, 2014(Tuesday) 


Time: 15:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs 


Venue: BSB 361( Seminar Hall), Department of Computer Science and Engineering 

Abstract: 


In peer-to-peer search, millions of peers across the world co-operate to realize a decentralized 
search engine. This approach to realize search engines has several advantages by design which 
are difficult to achieve in a centralized search engine(using a centrally managed set of dedicated 
servers). As each query of a user can be sent to a different peer among millions, obtaining all the 
query logs of the user in a single location will be difficult. This reduces the privacy concerns 
significantly. Further advantages include avoidance of centralized control and transparency 
in ranking. Background knowledge of the peers can also be considered for query processing 
enhancing the quality of search results. The above desirable properties led to lot of academic 
research in the area as well as development of real world peer-to-peer search engines. 


The peers participating in a peer-to-peer system share only their idle resources and 
join/leave independently. They are also connected to each other through low bandwidth inter- 
net. These characteristics lead to efficiency and stability issues in a data-intensive application 
like peer-to-peer search. In this talk we present two complementary extensions to traditional 
peer-to-peer search architecture to address these issues. First, we propose a two-layered ar- 
chitecture for peer-to-peer concept search. In the two-layered approach, peers are organized 
into communities and both peer background knowledge and document index are maintained 
at two levels. Universal knowledge is used to identify the appropriate communities for a query 
and search within the communities proceed based on the background knowledge developed 
independently by the communities. This approach helps in improving both bandwidth efficiency 
and result quality. Next, we propose transient use of public cloud resources 
to maintain stability of peer-to-peer search engines during query spikes. In the proposed archi- 
tecture, the responsibility of spiking queries are dynamically offloaded to public clouds during 
spike periods. Experimental evaluation under realistic settings shows that these approaches 
are effective in addressing the efficiency and stability issues. 


All are welcome. 

Sincerely, 
Harisankar H, 
PhD scholar, Dept. of CSE 
