Jacob Chakareski, faculty at University of Alabama, will be visiting
our department during Nov 26-28. He will give a talk on 27th
(Thursday) at 4pm in ESB244. He is also available to meet with
interested students. Please let me know if you would like to meet.


The details of his seminar are (also attached)

Title: Scaling Camera Networks One View at a Time: How Many Are Enough?

Abstract: Multi-Camera systems have enabled a plethora of novel
applications spanning entertainment, remote monitoring, and
telecommuting. A key component in all of them is the interactive
delivery of different viewpoint perspectives of the 3D scene of
interest that creates the sensation of immersion within the scene for
the user. This requires intelligent and adaptive processing of the
captured content in response to the user=E2=80=99s actions of switching
between different viewpoints, while addressing the challenges imposed
by the time-varying nature of the communication channel at the same
time. The talk will describe a novel user-action-driven framework for
joint view and rate scalable encoding of multi-camera video signals
and its prospective applications. Its building blocks comprise a
scalable encoder, optimization formulation for view and rate scalable
encoding, and probabilistic user behavior model. I will examine their
key properties and how they fit coherently within the overall system.
Through experiments, I will demonstrate its advantages over competing
methods. I will also show how our framework can be integrated into a
system for joint source-channel coding for multi-view multicast. At
the end, I will highlight a few other investigations: collaborative
caching in multi-cell wireless systems, distributed scheduling of
camera sensor arrays, and blogger retention in blogging communities.

Biography: Jacob Chakareski completed the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in
Electrical and Computer Engineering at WPI, Rice, and Stanford. He is
an Assistant Professor at the University of Alabama. Previously, he
held scientific positions with EPFL, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, and
Vidyo, a leading provider of Internet telepresence solutions.
Chakareski has authored one monograph, three book chapters, and over
100 international publications, and holds 5 US patents. His current
research interests include immersive communication, computer networks,
graph-based information processing, and social computing. He eagerly
pursues ultrasound applications in telemedicine and biomedicine. He is
an Advisory Board member of Mainframe2, an innovative cloud computing
start-up with a bright future.

Dr. Chakareski received the Swiss NSF Ambizione Career Award, the Best
Student Paper Award at the SPIE VCIP 2004 Conference, and the Best
Paper Award of the Stanford Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science Research Journal for 2004. He was also the recipient of the
Texas Instruments Graduate Research Fellowship at Rice University, the
Technical University Munich Mobility Fellowship, and the University of
Edinburgh Chancellor=E2=80=99s Fellowship. He was the Technical Program
Co-Chair of Packet Video in 2012 and the General Co-Chair of the IEEE
SPS Seasonal School on Social Media Processing in 2012. He was the
guest editor of the Springer PPNA journal Sept. 2013 special issue on
P2P-Assisted Cloud Computing Systems and he will be the guest editor
of the IEEE Trans. CSVT Aug. 2015 special issue on Mobile Visual
Computing in the Cloud. He will serve as TP Area Chair for ICME 2015
and as Demo/Expo Chair for ICME 2016. Dr. Chakareski is Senior Member
of the IEEE. For further info, please visit http://www.jakov.org.

Regards, Srikrishna
 -- -----------------------------------------------------------
Srikrishna Bhashyam Associate Professor,
Department of Electrical Engineering
 Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai 600036, India
Phone: 91-44-2257-4439 Fax: 91-44-2257-4402
Web Page: http://www.ee.iitm.ac.in/~skrishna/
-----------------------------------------------------------
