

Dear All, 


I will be giving my MS seminar talk on 10th July 2013 (Wednesday) at 3:00 PM in BSB 361. I request you to kindly attend the seminar and give your valuable suggestions. The details of the talk are as follows: 


Speaker : Prateek Barapatre 
Date : 10th July 2013, Wednesday 
Time : 15:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs 
Topic : On Identification Schemes under various settings: Identity-based, Ad-hoc systems, Attribute-based systems. 
Venue : BSB 361, Seminar Hall, Department of Computer Science and Engineering. 



Abstract 




Identification or Entity Authentication has been an important information security objective since the inception of cryptography. With the advent of asymmetric cryptography this process gained even more attention as there was necessity to authenticate the public keys of users. An identification scheme is an interactive protocol which allows an honest entity, called a prover (Peggy) to prove its identity to a verifying entity, called a verifier (Victor) in a secure fashion. There are different techniques to achieve identification of which challenge-response protocols (in asymmetric settings) and zero knowledge protocols are most used and are of interest. 

We first describe our result on Identity-based identification (IBI). Quite a large number of IBI schemes exist, but, there is still a need for more efficient (in terms of computation and communication) IBI schemes, especially in domains like mobile devices and smart cards. We propose a generic framework for constructing an IBI scheme from an Identity-Based Key Encapsulation Mechanism (ID-KEM) which is semantically secure against adaptive chosen ciphertext attack on one-wayness (OW-CCA2). This framework if applied to ID-KEM can lead to more efficient IBI scheme, as opposed to an IBI scheme developed from scratch. Additionally, we propose a new concrete and efficient IBI scheme secure against concurrent attack. 

Anonymous identification schemes in ad-hoc groups are yet other important cryptographic primitives that allow a participant from a set of users to prove her identity in that group, without revealing her actual identity or the group secret key. All the existing ad-hoc anonymous identification schemes in the literature make use of the bilinear pairing operation, resulting in a computational overhead. Our result in this setting is to develop a novel anonymous identity-based identification scheme for ad-hoc groups without using bilinear pairings. 

As a relatively new area, attribute-based cryptography provides a method for verifying users based on a set of attributes. Because of its usefulness in providing anonymity and privacy, attribute-based cryptography is recently gaining a lot of interest in cloud and shared computing environments. Inspired from its counterparts, namely Attribute-Based Encryption(ABE) and Attribute-Based Signatures(ABS), we study the concept of attribute-based cryptography in the identification primitive and try to propose a novel threshold attribute-based identification(ABI) scheme. 


All are welcome! 



-- 
Thanks & Regards, 
Prateek Barapatre, 
CS10S028 
Computer Science and Engineering 
