FYI

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Gaurav Raina <gaurav@ee.iitm.ac.in>
Date: Tue, Feb 4, 2014 at 11:41 AM
Subject: Talk on Big Data, Analytics & Wearables: 6th Feb, 2-3pm at ESB 244
To: 2011-Btech <11btech@ee.iitm.ac.in>, mtech <mtech@ee.iitm.ac.in>,
ms <ms@ee.iitm.ac.in>


Dear Students,

There is a talk by the CTO of Mahindra-Comviva: 2PM-3PM in ESB 244 on
Thursday 6th Feb, 2014.

They have some interesting analytics, big data, mobile financial
services related problems to work on. They are also looking for
interns and potential hires, so this may be a good opportunity if
you're interested in this space.

Regards,

Gaurav


Abstract of talk

Big Data is the new Oil, Big Data is the new Currency and what can we
do about it? Will we move to a world of Correlation rather than
Causation? How can we equip ourselves to make better sense of what is
happening around us? Do we know ourselves better or does Google knows
us better?



Google Glass, Nike Fuel Band, and Fitbit are some of the wearables
that have already started making waves and they are only the tip of
the iceberg. As the power of yester years Cray is packed into a
Samsung Smartphone today, the possibilities that the five forces of
Mobile, Data, Social Media, Location and Sensors are immense.
Wearables play a significant role as a part of these five forces that
shall take many avatars and enter into our lives slowly but surely.



Please join for a primer / talk into two emerging topics

(i)                  Big Data and Analytics: From Causation to Correlation

(ii)                Wearables: The wave that has started and shall endure



Bio of speaker

Zunder is the CTO of Mahindra Comviva and has over 19 years of rich
experience in Telecom sector. He has built and owned products serving
several hundred million users on a daily basis. His core competence
includes End to End product development and solution delivery of VAS
Infrastructure products. He has been instrumental in driving
innovation culture and formulating technology strategy for company.
Throughout his career, he has been in several roles spanning in
Product Development, Project Management, Technology, Research and
Strategy. He holds an M.Sc. in Computer Science from Pondicherry
University and PGDCM from IIM Kozhikode. Personally, he is passionate
about taking education to the less fortunate and is presently driving
a bumblebee initiative to realize his long standing dream.
