
This is a gentle reminder about my MS Seminar talk on June 25, 2014, Wednesday . 




Dear All, 

I am presenting my MS Seminar on June 25, 2014, Wednesday at 3:00 pm in BSB 361. Please make it convenient to attend and give your valuable feedback. 

The details are as below: 

Title : Salient Object Detection in Images 
Speaker : Sudeshna Roy 
Date : June 25, 2014, Wednesday 
Time : 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm 
Venue : BSB 361 

Abstract: 


Methods of Salient Object Detection (SOD) address the problem of localizing the prominent or visually salient object(s) in an image, by generating a probability map depicting human focus of attention. Visual saliency has become very popular and increasingly becoming a vital operation for a lot of computer vision tasks, such as object detection and recognition, content based image retrieval, scene understanding etc . It reduces the search space for such problems, by helping to localize the processing for extracting appropriate features for these tasks. Visual saliency is a perceptual quality of the human visual system, by which humans attend to a subset from the pool of available visual information. 

I will present two of our proposed bottom-up methods for saliency detection. In the first method, we utilize the low-level perceptual cues such as, rarity of feature, center-bias, boundary prior, and mathematically model them to generate a probability map depicting saliency in an unsupervised framework. Rarity of feature is computed by exploiting graph-based spectral feature rarity and the spatial variance of color. Boundary prior is obtained by statistically modeling the background in color space. 

The second formulation addresses the complex issues in many natural images where the object cannot be segmented using the low-level perceptual cues alone. To solve this problem we construct a CRF over superpixels, exploiting saliency in conjunction with different objectness criteria and appearance features, to formulate an energy function. Since, our edge-cost produces a sub-modular CRF we perform an exact inference using graph cut. The CRF parameters can also be learnt by formulating a max-margin optimization. 

To conclude, our models are time efficient and achieve state-of-the-art performance in saliency datasets and challenging object detection datasets (PASCAL-VOC, MSRC etc.) of natural images. Thus, can be effectively used as pre-processing step for many computer vision algorithms. 

All are welcome. 

Thank you. 

Regards, 
Sudeshna 
-- 


Sudeshna Roy 
MS Scholar 
Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering 
IIT Madras 