---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Janakiram D <djram@iitm.ac.in>
Date: Wed, Oct 8, 2014 at 7:55 PM
Subject: FW: Seminar Talk by Dr. Aruna Balasubramanian, University of
Washington, Seattle
To: "scholars@cse.iitm.ac.in" <scholars@cse.iitm.ac.in>





Seminar Announcement

Talk Title : Demystifying Web Page Loads

Speaker : Dr. Aruna Balasubramanian, University of Washington, Seattle

Date : 10th October

Venue : BSB 365

Time : 3-4 pm

Demystifying Web Page Loads
 ----------------------------------------

In this talk, I will describe WProf, a system that demystifies the page
load process. There are a lot of techniques and "best practices" proposed
to make web pages load faster, but they don't always work because they do
not target the page load bottleneck. Proposals such as SPDY, which is the
soon-to-be standard for HTTP, cannot be evaluated thoroughly because Web
page loads are poorly understood, involving several inter-dependent
activities and complex dependency policies. In this work, we extract the
dependency policies imposed by four major browsers by systematically
instrumenting test pages and by analyzing browser code. Using the extracted
dependency policies, we build WProf, a system that can  identify the
bottleneck of any Web page at scale. We use WProf to study SPDY, the new
HTTP 2.0 protocol.

In the last part of the talk, I will describe some of my other work in
mobile systems and power efficiency. Specifically, I will be briefly
describe MobileHub, a system that automatically rewrites mobile
applications to be more power efficient, with zero developer effort.

Bio
----

Aruna Balasubramanian is a Soon-to-be Faculty at Stony Brook University and
currently a Postdoctoral fellow at the University of Washington. She
received her Ph.D from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where her
dissertation won the UMass outstanding dissertation award and was the
Sigcomm dissertation award runner up. She works in the area of networked
systems, and her work incorporates elements of both networking and systems
in the context of mobile computing. As part of service to the community,
she has served on the Program committee of Mobicom, MobiSys, NSDI, IMC, and
several workshops. She is the recipient of the Computing Innovation
Fellowship and the Microsoft Graduate Research Fellowship.
