Hello all, 
Since the talk is of interest to a large number of students, the venue is shifted to CS25. 

Thanks, 
Sriram 


From: ravi@cse.iitm.ac.in 
To: "Seminar" <seminar@cse.iitm.ac.in> 
Sent: Sunday, August 4, 2013 11:09:49 AM 
Subject: Department seminar on 8th August on Cloud Computing. 


Dear All, 


Prof. Sanjay G. Rao from Purdue will be giving a talk on Cloud Computing at 2 p.m. on Thursday the 8th, in BSB 361. Details below. All are welcome. 


Regards 
Ravi. 




Title:
  Cloud Computing: Opportunities and Challenges 


In this talk, I will begin by presenting an overview of cloud computing, 
and the opportunities it provides to create geo-distributed, and 
highly scalable applications with attractive cost-saving advantages. 
I will then discuss some of the challenges that inhibit its wider
adoption such as performance variability due to multi-tenancy,
data privacy, and availability. 
I will then present research in Purdue's Internet Systems
Laboratory, which seeks to target these challenges. Specifically,
these include (i) Dealer, a middleware for multi-tier web applications
that can help them adapt to cloud performance variability;
(ii) D-Tunes, a system for automatically configuring replication 
policies in geo-distributed cloud data storage systems (e.g., Google's
Spanner, Cassandra, Amazon's Dynamo) taking into account latency, availability 
and consistency requirements of web applications; and  (iii) algorithms for
partitioning applications in hybrid cloud models, where parts of the application
are in-house, and parts in the cloud. 
Bio: Sanjay G. Rao is an Associate Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
at Purdue University, where he leads the Internet Systems Laboratory. His current research is 
in Networking and Cloud Computing, and his past work has spanned several areas including enterprise 
network management, Internet video distribution, and peer-to-peer systems. He received a B.Tech in 
Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and the Ph.D from 
the School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University. He has been a Visiting Research Scientist 
in Google and AT&T Research. He is a recipient of the NSF Career award, and won the ACM SIGMETRICS Test 
of Time Award for his work on End System Multicast (peer-to-peer video streaming). 
He has served on the Technical Program Committees of several workshops and conferences including 
ACM Sigcomm, Usenix NSDI, IEEE Infocom and ACM CoNext, and was the technical program co-chair of 
the INM/WREN workshop held in conduction with NSDI 2010.

For more details, please see:
http://www.ece.purdue.edu/~sanjay
http://www.ece.purdue.edu/~isl 