Dear All

Ayan Acharya from Univ.  of Texas, Austin, will be giving a talk on
knowledge transfer using latent variable models at 3 pm on 15th in
=E2=80=8BCSE Department Seminar Hall, =E2=80=8B
BSB 361.  All are welcome. Details below.

Regards
Ravi.

Title: Knowledge Transfer Using Latent Variable Models

=E2=80=8BCoordinates: =E2=80=8BBSB 361, CSE Seminar Hall. 3 p.m., Monday, S=
eptember 15th.

 Abstract:

In several applications, scarcity of labeled data is a challenging problem
that hinders the predictive capabilities of machine learning algorithms.
Additionally, the distribution of the data changes over time rendering
models trained with older data less capable of discovering useful structure
from the newly available data. Transfer learning is a convenient framework
to overcome such problems where the learning of a model specific to a
domain can benefit the learning of other models in other domains through
either simultaneous training of domains or systematic sequential transfer
of knowledge from one domain to the others.

In this talk, variety of methods for achieving transfer learning are
explored where a hidden layer is shared across different domains in
hierarchical latent variable based models. Applications of such frameworks
in problems like text classification, object recognition from images,
network modeling for community detection and evolution of count values
vectors and matrices have shown excellent results so far. In particular,
the strength of non-parametric Poisson factorization will also be explored
in the context of knowledge transfer and modeling of large scale count data
prevalent in text mining, image analysis and recommender systems.

Bio:

Ayan Acharya is a fifth year Ph.D. student in Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at University of Texas at Austin, USA. He is
associated with Intelligent Data Exploration and Analysis Laboratory
(IDEAL) led by Dr. Joydeep Ghosh and Machine Learning Research Group led by
Dr. Raymond J. Mooney. He also collaborates actively with Dr. Mingyuan Zhou
from McCombs School of Business and Applied Research Laboratories, UT
Austin. His research focus is on developing generative models and efficient
inference algorithms for solving transfer learning problems prevalent in
text document analysis, social network study, recommender systems and
object recognition from images. Over the years, he has also garnered
sufficient experience in industry through his internships in places like
eBay Research Lab, Qualcomm Inc., Yahoo! Research, Sunnyvale, CA and
Cognitive Scale, Austin, TX. Before joining UT Austin, he completed his
Bachelor's degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering from
Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India in the year 2009.
