Dear All, 
This is a reminder for the seminar announced a few days earlier. Please do attend. 

The speaker is a PhD student at CMU working with Avrim Blum and Anupam Gupta. 
He is a 2008 alumnus of IITK, CSE Department. 


Regards 
narayanaswamy 
--------------------- 
Speaker : Ankit Sharma , CMU 

Venue: BSB 361, 10AM-11AM, 1st March 20 13 

Title: Welfare and Profit maximization with Procurement costs 

Abstract: 

What is the problem? 
A limited resource needs to be allocated amongst a set of self-interested 
agents. Combinatorial Auctions, that capture this situation, are a central 
problem in Algorithmic Mechanism Design: how to price and allocate goods 
to buyers with complex preferences in order to maximize an objective such 
as social welfare or revenue. 

Hmm.. I see. So, what is your contribution? 
The problem has been well-studied in the case of limited supply (few 
copies of each item), and unlimited supply. While in the case of limited 
supply, there are strong lower bounds known, the case of unlimited supply 
may be too optimistic for many settings. 

In this talk, we look at how by relaxing the "strength" of the limitation 
of available copies of an item, we can beat the lower bounds for the 
limited supply and get a smooth transition to the case of unlimited 
supply. While if the limitation is "soft", we achieve a constant factor 
approximation, in case of "hard" limitation, we achieve a logarithmic 
approximation. 

Highlight of the results. 
In a work with Avrim Blum, Anupam Gupta and Yishay Mansour, we initiate 
the study of resource allocation in a more realistic modeling of 
limitation where each resource has an increasing procurement cost. In this 
talk, we describe a simple pricing scheme that achieves a constant factor 
approximation to the optimal social welfare for polynomial and logarithmic 
procurement cost curves. Furthermore, for arbitrary procurement cost 
curves, we describe a pricing scheme that achieves a logarithmic 
approximation to optimal welfare. 

We consider arbitrary combinatorial valuation of the buyers and consider 
the two objective functions of social welfare and revenue. 


The results are part of a work that appeared at Foundations of Computer 
Science (FOCS), 2011. Joint work with Avrim Blum, Anupam Gupta and Yishay 
Mansour. 


Bio: Ankit Sharma is a graduate student at Carnegie Mellon University. He 
is advised by Avrim Blum and Anupam Gupta. His current research focuses on 
algorithms and algorithmic game theory. 

----------------------------------- 
